In these next three topics will
be talking about data storage.
Now there are no assignments for
you to turn in for these three segments,
but I highly encourage you to take a look.
There's some great information here and
it's becoming increasingly important,
especially the part about feature stores.
But depending upon where you are and
what you already have,
you may have a data warehouse or
data lake that you want to leverage.
So understanding those becomes important.
Okay, let's get started.
Now let's turn to the question of
where we should store our data.
We'll start with a discussion
of feature stores.
A feature store is a central
repository for storing documented,
curated and access controlled features.
Using a feature store
enables teams to share,
discover and use highly curated features.
A feature store makes it easy to
discover and consume that feature and
that can be both online or offline for
both serving and training.
But people often discover is that many
modeling problems use identical or
similar features.
So often the same data is used
in multiple modeling scenarios.
In many cases, a feature store can be
seen as the interface between feature
engineering and model development.
Feature stores are valuable
centralized feature repositories that
reduce redundant work.
They are also valuable because they
enable teams to share data and
discover data that is already available.
You may have different teams in
an organization with different business
problems that they're trying to solve.
But they're using identical data or
data that's very similar.
For these reasons, feature stores
are becoming the predominant choice for
enterprise data storage.
For machine learning, for
large projects and organizations.
Feature stores often allow transformations
of data so that you can avoid
duplicating that processing in
different individual pipelines.
The access to the data in feature
stores can be controlled based on role
based permissions.
The data in the feature stores can
be aggregated to form new features.
It can also be anonymous sized and
even purged for things like wipeouts For
GDP our compliance, for example.
Feature stores typically allow for
feature processing offline
that can be on a regular basis,
maybe on a cron job, for example.
Imagine that you're going to
run a job to ingest data.
And then maybe do some
feature engineering on it and
produce additional features from it.
Maybe for feature crosses, for example,
these new features will also be
published to the Feature store.
You can also integrate that with
monitoring tools as your processing and
adjusting your data.
You could be running
monitoring again offline.
Those processed features are stored for
offline use.
They can also be part of
a prediction request.
But doing a join with the data
provided in the prediction request to
pull in additional information.
Feature metadata allows you to
discover the features that you need.
The metadata that describes the data
that you are keeping is a tool.
And often the main tool for trying to
discover the data that you're looking for.
For online feature usage where predictions
must be returned in real time.
The latency requirements
are typically fairly strict.
You're going to need to make sure that
you have fast access to that data.
If you're going to do a join, for example,
maybe with user account information
along with individual requests.
That join has to happen quickly.
That's good, but it's often difficult
to compute some of those features in
a performant manner online.
So having pre computed
features is often a good idea.
If you pre compute and store those
features then you can use them later.
And typically that's
at fairly low latency.
You can also do this in
a batch environment.
Again, you don't want
the latency to be too long, but
it probably isn't as strict
as an online request.
For pre computing and loading, especially
things like historical features,
it tends to be fairly simple.
For historical features
in a badger environment,
it's also usually straightforward.
However, when you're training your model,
you need to make sure that you only
include data that will be available at
the time that a serving request is made.
Including data that is only
available at some time after
a serving request is
referred to as time travel.
And many feature stores include
safeguards to avoid that.
Besides it violates the laws of
physics and we don't want to do that.
You might do pre computing on a clock
every few hours or once a day.
You're going to use of course,
that same data for both training and
serving in order to avoid training,
serving skew.
The goals of most feature
stores are providing
a unified means of managing featured data.
They can scale from a single
person up to large enterprises.
It needs to be performant and
you want to try to use that same data,
both when you're training and
serving your models.
You want consistency and also point in
time correct access to feature data.
You want to avoid making a prediction,
for example,
using data that will only be available in
the future when you're serving your model.
In other words,
if you're trying to predict
something that will happen tomorrow.
You want to make sure that you
are not including data from tomorrow.
It should only be data
from before tomorrow.
Most feature stores provide
tools to enable discovery and
to allow you to document and
provide insights into your features.